So we're gonna get into updating Mongo DB.
So, so far, we've just must have
been talking about reading and
writing to Mongo DB.
We're gonna be talking more about now,
how to do updates, deletes,
those kinds of things.
So the first, like we've already talked
about, insert one and insert many, right?
Insert one is, I wanna insert one thing
into my database or my collection.
Insert many is,
I have an array of documents, I would like
to insert all of those into my collection.
You'll also notice that there is
a function called insert, right?
It's not insert one and
so many, but just insert,
this is actually the old way of doing it.
I would recommend to
not use insert anymore.
I think it's also deprecated
according to MongoDB.
It would intelligently decide if
you're trying to insert one or
if you're trying to insert many,
depending on what you gave it.
But what they found is that,
people were just messing things up and
accidentally inserting too many or
accidentally and only inserting one thing.
Normally, that way, they would try and
be to insert many objects, and
they would actually end up inserting
one very, very large document.
So they just recommend, tell MongoDB up
front you're trying to insert many or
insert one.
And this is true of all of the methods
when we talk about, there's a delete one,
delete many, delete, just use
the delete one and the delete many, and
same thing with update as well.
Do the update, many or update one.
So I'm not gonna show you again,
insert one and insert many,
we already did that one.
So we're gonna move on to updates.
So the first one that we're gonna
do here is, we're gonna update one.
So what I'm gonna do now is,
I'm gonna say db.pets.update1.
So this is gonna work just like find one,
where it's going to find
that the first one that it encounters,
I think it's by create date.
It's going to update that one,
it's not gonna update anything else.
So here, I'm gonna say, update one.
And the first thing that you're
gonna give it is a query object.
This is the exact same object that
you provide to find or find one or
find many, right?
Or there's no find many, it's just find.
So I'm gonna say, find one that's a dog,
that's named Luna.
And you don't have to put quotes there,
those quotes are optional,
cuz it's JavaScript, right?
Name, Luna, breed, Haveanease.
So we're gonna find my Luna, okay?
And then the second object
that you can provide to,
is you're basically gonna tell MongoDB,
how do you want to update this?
We wanna set her owner to me,
Brian Holt, dollar signs set.
So this is going to be basically an object
that's gonna do like an object merge, or
what is object at assign,
if you're familiar with JavaScript,
that's how this is gonna work.
So I'm gonna provide this
in another object, and
I'm gonna give it an owner of Brian Holt,
Okay?
So let's just kind of break this down,
update one,
you're gonna provide it a query object and
an update object.
The first one is going to find
the record that you're trying to, or
the document that you're trying to update.
The second one is going to
tell it how to update it.
So if I run this,
did I not include enough,
that's what I did wrong.
Hold on, I put too many curly braces.
This seems to happen to me quite a bit,
I'm just gonna copy and paste this one.
I need to do that again.
There we go, so
it'll give you acknowledged true,
this is like, this was successful,
this actually did happen.
It matched one thing which is good,
cuz that's what I asked for,
update one and I modified one thing.
So if I ran this again, you would notice
that it said, it matched one, but
it didn't modify anything, because that
was already the way that it was, right?
So now, if I change this from,
if I say db.pets.find,
and I searched by owner, Brian Holt.
You notice, it's only gonna return one.
So a couple things that I've
demonstrated here, one,
we just showed you how to do update one,
right?
So that's gonna be updating
this one to be Brian Holt.
But also notice that,
no other pet object or
pet document in our
collection has an owner.
I just made that one up on the flier,
that piece of schema, right?
So that's what's really cool
about MongoDB, is like,
if you wanna change the schema
of your collection, just do it.
There's no pomp and
circumstance to do anything about this.
You just go, and
you can change things on the fly.
It's one of the superpowers of MongoDB,
it's also one of its downfalls,
cuz it's really easy to mess this up,
right?
Because it's not going to challenge you,
the guard rails are of,
you can do whatever you want.
So it's kind of a double
edged sword there.
So let's do an update many.
We're gonna do db.pets.updateMany.
Let's say it's every dog's birthday today,
it's dog birthday day, let's do that.
So the first thing is we're gonna do is,
we're going to do an updateMany.
We're gonna give it a query object.
So we're gonna find every dog type, dog,
and then we're gonna
give it a query object.
And we're gonna say, when to use
a special operator for updates.
And we're going increment all
of their ages by one, right?
Because some of them will be af age 1,
some will be age 2,
some will be age 3, and
we wanted to just add 1 to all of those.
So we say, $inc for increment And
then we're gonna find age, and
we're going to want to increase it by 1.
You can increase it by 2, right?
If you wanted to So
now, if we run that,
you can see that we matched 2501
documents in the collection, and
we've modified all of those.
So actually, if it's find again that dog,
you can see here,
Luna's age was age eight here, and now,
you can see Luna's age is age nine,
because we incremented all of
their ages by 1, make sense?
There's a bunch of those.
There's, I put a link in here as well,
you could just take a look here.
Increment, rename, you can rename fields.
So for example, if you're trying to
change names to be Title, I don't know,
something like that.
You can do this renamed,
names the keys for all these,
you can unset, so you can just
delete something off of an object.
You can insert the current date,
all these things are available to you.
So we talked about update,
specifically using this set,
yeah, I can see here, this particular
set operator to change an object.
So we were just changing and
leaving everything else the same.
There's something as well called replace.
So you can replace one and replace many.
And instead of providing
here a set object,
you provide the whole object and
it will replace everything.
That makes sense?
So, yeah, be aware that you can
use update or you can use replace.
So let's talk about upsert,
which is a ridiculous word, but
it is one that you'll hear a lot
in talking about databases.
Upsert is the idea, is like,
if you find something, update it.
If it's not there, insert it,
does that make sense?
So it's kind of this atomic transaction,
or
this atomic query that allows you
to change something if it exists.
If not, then go ahead and update it.
So let's go ahead and
run one of those really quick.
So we're gonna say, DB.pets.update1.
And let's say we wanna put in here,
Sarah dog.
I don't know if you've ever seen
Sarah dog, but it's adorable.
The dog's name is Sudo, so
you can tell the dog to sudo sit,
which is just the funniest joke that
never gets old to me, all right?
So type dog name, Sudo.
You'll notice that we don't have a dog
named Sudo in our database right now.
And the breed is a wheaten,
which I had to go look up,
which are adorable dogs by the way, okay?
So that's the thing that
we're gonna query for,
that query will not match
anything on a database.
So what we're gonna do here is,
we're gonna give it a set object.
So dollar signs set, and
because it's an upsert,
we wanna provide it the whole object,
because if nothing matches that dog,
then it's going to take that set
object and make that the new object.
So you have to provide
it with everything else.
Also will be lacking
that in the new object.
So type dog, name, Sudo.
Breed, Wheaton, age, 5.
I don't actually know how old Sudo is,
but I just took a guess.
Index, we'll just give it a random index.
So I'm gonna give it 20,000 and
the owner is Sarah Drasner.
If you don't know Sarah, she's another
instructor in Frontend Masters,
and has amazing courses on design and
view and lots of other cool stuff.
Okay, so that's our set object.
Then the last thing is, we're gonna give
it one more parameter to this update one,
this is like a configuration ones.
We can provide different sorts
of configurations to this query.
We're just gonna give it an upsert:true.
That basically says,
if you don't find it, insert it.
I forgot a curly brace here.
So I'm just gonna copy and
paste this from my notes.
Promise you it's the same thing though.
So we're querying for this,
it's not gonna find it.
We're gonna try and set it to this.
So if this did exist, this would get
updated, because it's not going to exist,
it's going to get inserted.
So you can see here, match 0,
modified 0, upserted ID.
This means it actually did get
inserted into our collection.
So now, if we just said DB.pets.findpets,
find name, Sudo,
we would find, Find one.
Our good friend Sudo the dog.